Rewrite of instance.md, introducing data-methods.md (#514)
vuejs/docs-next: src/guide/data-methods.md

# Data Properties and Methods

## Data Properties

> The `data` function for a component is called as part of creating a new component instance. It should return an object, which Vue wraps in its reactivity system and stores on the instance as `$data`. For convenience, any top-level properties of that object are also exposed directly via the component instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `data` property for a component is called as part of creating a new component instance. It is a function that should return an object, which Vue will then wrap in its reactivity system and store on the component instance as `$data`. For convenience, any top-level properties of that object are also exposed directly via the component instance:
```

Reviewer: Suggested edits are motivated by people not as familiar with JS, so calling it a property would be easier to follow initially, and then defining it technically should allow them that gradual ease into the concepts for data.

Author: The later parts are now integrated.

I don't think we can open the paragraph with *'The `data` property'* because that would conflict with the more common meaning of 'data property'.

I've had a go at rewording the start of this paragraph to take things slower.

```js
const app = Vue.createApp({
  data() {

>     return { count: 4 }

Reviewer 2: Sounds like valid points to me. The only issue might be that we plan to add a linter to code snippets and this one may be automatically formatted to 'standard' view (which is 3 lines)

>     return { count: 4 }

Reviewer: Agreed. I'm all for removing single letter or nonsense words as variable names in documentation.

  }
})

const vm = app.mount('#app')

console.log(vm.$data.count) // => 4
console.log(vm.count)       // => 4

// Assigning a value to vm.count will also update $data.count
vm.count = 5
console.log(vm.$data.count) // => 5

// ... and vice-versa
vm.$data.count = 6
console.log(vm.count) // => 6
```

These instance properties are only added when the instance is first created, so you need to ensure they are all present in the object returned by the `data` function. Where necessary, use `null`, `undefined` or some other placeholder value for properties where the desired value isn't yet available.

It is possible to add a new property directly to the component instance without including it in `data`. However, because this property isn't backed by the reactive `$data` object it won't automatically be tracked by [Vue's reactivity system](reactivity.html).

Vue uses a `$` prefix when exposing its own built-in APIs via the component instance, e.g. `$emit`. It also reserves the prefix `_` for internal properties. You should avoid using names for top-level `data` properties that start with either of these characters.

## Methods

> You might be tempted to put functions in your `data` so that you can use them as methods:

Reviewer 3: I've never encountered anyone who does this (putting functions in `data` as methods), no matter how much of a beginner they are so IMHO this might not be the best approach to introduce `methods`.

Author: Yeah, I made a similar observation here: https://github.com/vuejs/docs-next/pull/514/files/932839b6f612d79f299ab7e45604e0188d327e96#r491639058

I'll give it some more thought. I probably just need to delete most of that introduction and get to the point.

Reviewer: While this is theoretically possible, I'm think this would introduce an anti-pattern and may be more harmful than helpful. However, I do think this would make an interesting blog post!

Author: I've rewritten the **Methods** section. A few small pieces remain but it's mostly new.

As a result, the sections on **Data Properties** and **Methods** aren't really linked anymore. They could be split into two pages, though they would be quite short compared to the rest of the guide.

I've given up on trying to explain that the properties created by `methods` aren't reactive. There are plenty of more important points to hit.

> You might be tempted to put functions in your `data` so that you can use them as methods:

Author: This has been completely rewritten.

```js
const app = Vue.createApp({
  data() {
    return {
      count: 4,

>       // Don't do this

Reviewer 2: Agreed. People tend to jump from once code snippet to another so it's good to have code comments repeating the logic of the explanation

1. Methods typically aren't reassigned after creation, so there's no need for Vue's reactivity system to track them.
2. If a function becomes detached from its object it will lose its `this` binding. This frequently happens when methods are used as event listeners.
3. For components with several methods they will quickly clutter up the `data` function.

To solve these problems, Vue has a separate configuration option especially for `methods`:

```js
const app = Vue.createApp({
  data() {
    return { count: 4 }
  },
  methods: {
    increment() {
      this.count++
    }
  }
})

const vm = app.mount('#app')

console.log(vm.count) // => 4

// Detach the function from `vm`
const inc = vm.increment

// Vue automatically binds the functions in `methods`,
// so the `this` value inside the function will still
// refer to the correct component instance
inc()

console.log(vm.count) // => 5
```

Just like all other properties of the component instance, the `methods` are accessible from within the component's template. If a method is called by a component's template, any reactive data it uses will be tracked and added as a rendering dependency.

> ### Debouncing and Throttling

Reviewer 2: **suggestion**: I would recommend moving this section to `Examples`. We try to reduce the cognitive load (especially on **Essentials** part and here we
1. Introduce a new concept (debouncing)
2. Introduce a new library (lodash)
3. Neither of these is directly connected to Vue

Author: Yeah, I had expected this to be controversial and tried to explain my reasoning when I first created the PR. Shame I failed to make the comments visible but the relevant one is here:

https://github.com/vuejs/docs-next/pull/514/files/952f8cba80365431108960ee9c957dca55a36f47#r491641224

In addition to what I wrote there:

1. Having it in the examples section wouldn't achieve everything I was trying to achieve. (See my earlier comment)
2. There is already something in the examples section that uses lodash for debouncing. https://v3.vuejs.org/examples/markdown.html. Unfortunately, because it's such a simple example it uses the 'cheap and cheerful' approach to debouncing that won't actually work with reusable components. Constructing a full example that 'does it properly' is actually quite tricky but that current example does somewhat lead people astray without anything to warn them.
3. The Vue 2 docs did have another debouncing example: https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/computed.html#Watchers. It seems that's been tweaked to remove the debouncing aspect in Vue 3.
4. I suspect that for most intermediate JS developers, debouncing would not be a new concept. One reason I also included the term 'throttling' was to jog the memories of those who had forgotten what debouncing was. For those who still don't know what debouncing is, I tried to word the opening sentence in such a way that it implied it could be skipped.

Specifically on the topic of debouncing itself, it is something that gets asked about in the context of Vue on a very regular basis. Just today someone was asking about it on SO: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64026366. A quick search for questions mentioning Vue and debouncing throws up loads of other examples. One of the most popular Vue questions is https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42199956, which does have all the information lurking in the answers but you really have to dig through a lot of weak suggestions to find the gold.

All my waffling aside, the TLDR is that I'd like to keep that example where I currently have it. If you really want it gone then I will, of course, remove it.

> Vue doesn't include built-in support for debouncing or throttling but it can be implemented using libraries such as lodash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vue doesn't include built-in support for debouncing or throttling but it can be implemented using libraries such as [lodash](https://lodash.com/).
```

Author: Done. I've also changed Lodash to a capital L, as that seems to be their preferred convention.

In cases where a component is only used once, the debouncing can be applied directly within `methods`:

```js

> const app = Vue.createApp({

Reviewer 2: We need to show importing `_` from lodash in this code snippet as it's not completely clear to people without lodash experience what is an underscore here

Author: I've updated this example to try to address this. It isn't quite as straightforward as it sounded because (I think) it needs to use a CDN version of Lodash for consistency with the other examples. That leaves the `_` not explicitly defined. I've added a comment in the code to try to clarify a bit more.
